Foundation History

The Hüsnü M. Özyeğin Foundation began its efforts to establish Özyeğin University in the fall of 2005. The foundation for Özyeğin University entailed comprehensive surveys conducted with more than 500 subjects including businessmen, faculty members, and university and high school students, in addition to a study on "Developing Sectors and Professions in Turkey and in the World". Based on the results of these studies, ARAMA Consulting began the designing process. The University’s fundamental values and vision were discussed and identified in collaboration with all of the stakeholders. Özyeğin University shaped its vision through a series of workshops. More than 300 participants attended these workshops, including businessmen, faculty members, university students, and new graduates.
In line with its collectively-shaped vision, Özyeğin University was officially established on May 18, 2007 to serve as a unique university that would contribute to social development through its modern education system, innovative structure integrated with life, academic approach intertwined with sectors, and academic programs tailored accordingly.
Özyeğin University welcomed its first students on its Altunizade Campus in September 2008, and opened the doors of its Çekmeköy Campus in September 2011.

Vision
To be the most-preferred, learner-centered entrepreneurial research university for all stakeholders.

Mission
To serve society as an entrepreneurial research university by creating, sharing, and applying solution-oriented, high value-added knowledge.

Basic Values
The leading values of Özyeğin University are freedom, flexibility, multidimensionality and accessibility.
The university will be an advocate of academic freedom and institutional autonomy.
The university will provide extensive flexibility to students, staff members and the institutions with which it cooperates. With characteristics such as flexible structures, dynamic programs and freedom in the choice of courses, the university shall provide its students and researchers with the possibility to adapt to rapidly changing business life as well as education and research opportunities which can be customized in accordance with individual differences.
The university will adopt a multidimensional approach which will offer different possibilities and characteristics, and develop an environment including different cultures and points of view. The university will evolve in an environment of diversity providing different opportunities for intercultural exchange, and supporting creativity, learning and discovery. In this context, great importance will be attached to international exchange programs for students and professors and international academic cooperation.
The University endeavors to be financially accessible to students from different corners of Turkey and the region through its effective operation and financial support model, while also offering opportunities to outstanding and talented students with limited financial resources through its effective scholarship system